Now, we would like to hear some challenges or trials that you've faced throughout those
years.
Brother Murray, could you start for us?
It's interesting.
In the work we had a lot of travel.
We've always had a lot of travel, of course, that's why it's called travel and work.
And in South America and Guyana, we would sometimes travel for weeks and never ride in a car.
We'd ride by plane, boat or some other way.
As far as accommodations, they were very humble in Guyana.
They were also very humble here in this country at times, but also very luxurious at times.
But there's something that both places had in common.
The brothers always provided us the best they had, the best they could.
And it's interesting, Sister Murray and I spent over half of our career in the travel
and work in homes.
And some of our strongest, most enduring relationships were built with people that we stayed with
in their homes over the years.
And quite frankly, I strongly recommend that as a way to really strengthen your relationship
with the brothers.
Now you're telling me another challenge you faced last minute assignments from the branch.
As an example, last year on a Thursday, the first week in the service year, I got a call
early in the morning.
I mean, before seven, from the branch asking me if I could go to Wisconsin to fill in
for a district overseer.
And that was on Thursday.
I said, when do you want me to go?
They said, I want you to go tomorrow for the weekend.
I didn't have the talks up.
And there were four talks I had to get up.
So I did what seemed to be the easiest thing I called some traveling brother friends and
said, similar outlines, it'll help me get my talks up.
They did.
And I think that's the benefit of having a strong relationship with your fellow traveling
brothers.
Help you get your talks up.
Absolutely.
Very good.
Thank you.
Brother Episcopos, some challenges that you faced.
And Bolivia, when I entered the circuit work in November of 1956, the main mode of travel
was on trucks.
And the whole country, which is two and a half times the size of California, was my circuit.
I only had five congregations in the whole country, the rest were isolated groups.
And I had the privilege of introducing the truth into a number of villages.
There were challenges, but I was young and strong.
Our great challenge came in 1964 when we had to leave our precious assignment and start
parenting.
And I must admit that I wasted about a year feeling sorry for myself.
Well, I started to hear my own negativity.
And with Jehovah's help, I said, get on with it.
There's life after children.
And sure enough, we worked and pursued the goal of getting back into this.
And in 1986, after our boys were raised, we were ready to get back into this.
We were able to get back into the special full-time service.
Oh.
Beautiful.
Brother Thompson, some of your trials and challenges?
I'd like to relate this experience when waiting for an assignment upon leaving Bethel.
And my wife said, there are two places I don't want to go because of the social issues.
Mississippi and Alabama.
Well, Alabama was the first assignment.
And Mississippi was the third assignment.
And we loved it because Jehovah's molded us and trained us.
It was a beautiful experience that helped us to be prepared for the work he had assigned
for us to do.
And on a list of challenges, I would say, dealing without aging parents is one and also
health concern on my part.
In the case of my mother-in-law, it proved to be a time of great anxiety for Verneese
since she couldn't be there to give her assistance, although she had a brother and two sisters
that looked after her.
And in my case, my brothers and sisters, I'm the oldest of eight.
They were very supportive to me in my work.
And if there was a crisis with my parents, I was the last to know about it.
They resolved things and then they would inform me.
And I appreciated that so much.
If my concern as health, it was, I guess, about eight or nine years ago, I was diagnosed
with prostate cancer.
And so the organization was very supportive.
I was wondering, worried about the expense of it, how it would be cared for.
And so they let me decide a certain treatment, a robotic surgery that happened in Alabama.
And not a worry at all.
So I never lost any sleep or concern over it.
And I appreciate to this day the support the branch office provided.
Good.
Thank you, brothers, for your expression.
Obviously, you and your wives have dealt with various trials.